Hello and welcome to another Java tutorial.
We're going to continue our discussion on the native image and then we're going to look at the most
important topic about native image, which is generally Java, Native interface.
How do we if we are going to compile a job application to native executable binaries so that we gain
the convenience of Java development, but then we gained speed of C++ applications.
How do we what do we do when we have some native cards in our Java application?
You know that classes in Java, they can have methods that are declared as native.
So native is a keyword in Java.
When you use it on a method, it means you're not going to define any body for that particular method.
And at runtime, JVM realizes that it has to look for the code that is associated with that native method
in a C++ or a basically a binary file, a dynamic file, right?
And JVM has a method or a mechanism to load the extra binaries that are code that can be associated
with the native method in Java and they are from the system again.
Remember, whenever we talk about JVM in Java, it means system.
So JVM is equivalent is equivalent to system class.
Or there is another one called runtime, right?
Runtime class and for example, system that load is more or less a delegates.
These call to the runtime, right?
So system load you give it an absolute path to a dynamic library obviously.
Then that dynamic library is platform dependent.
You could compile that binary for the Mac OS Intel CPU or another arm CPU on a different platform,
let's say Linux, etc..
Right.
So you lose whenever you have JNI calls or native calls in a Java application.
AVC You you use you lose some of the platform independence benefits that Java provides.
However, there are ways to ensure that your code works on various platforms.
And the way you do it is you write your native part of your job application, compile it on different
platforms, and then embed all the binaries in your jar file.
If you want to distribute your application as a Java file and then whoever runs it at runtime, you
check what the platform is.
And again, Java provides mechanisms or classes that you can use to check the operating system.
Right.
And at runtime you can decide which dynamic library, which native library to load.
So our Java application may require calls to native libraries.
We can use JNI Java Native interface to call C++ libraries.
Obviously JNI was very or is very old in the sense that it was developed early on.
I think it was developed for JDK four or something like that.
If you're not familiar with what JNI is and how powerful it is, I have a full course called Java Native
Interface in depth.
I definitely highly recommend you go and check it out on Udemy.
I also have all the lectures as free videos or tutorials on YouTube so you can watch them.
So the idea is that let's say let's start with a very simple example, right?
We have a hello world class and then it has a native method called say hi.
And then again this say hi is let's say a static method.
It's what we declared as native, which means just like an abstract method, you don't provide anybody,
not even an empty body, right?
So just no body terminated immediately with semicolon.
And then at runtime, JVM tries to look for a basically a binary file, a dynamic file so that it has
the actual implementation of this method in that binary file.
And obviously there is a mechanism that associated this method to a binary in C++ and that's what the
G interface is doing, right?
It's a foreign function interface, FFI, which Java calls JNI, Java Native interface.
So you have your class, it has a native method, you compile it, and then you can pass a hyphen edge
flag to your Java compiler so that it generates the header file that is associated.
You don't really need to do that.
You can write the header file by hand, but then you have to know the conventions that JNI uses for
binding a Java method to a particular C++ implementation.
And again, those bindings are related to the package hierarchy, the name of the class, the name of
the method.
If the method is overloaded, then you have to use some special syntax.
And again, if you want to learn an in-depth understanding about JNI, I highly recommend you follow
my lectures.
I have more than 50 hour 30 hours of lectures on JNI, so let's go ahead and try to implement this class
and then.
And then get the compiler, compile the C++ part, and then we will come back and see now how do we
embed that or how to correctly use this dynamic library when we go to the VM and try to compile our
Java application to native executable file.
So the problem is that system that load you have to or system that load library.
So JVM has to at runtime look for dynamic library and dynamic library means it has to be a file which
is available on the file system of your hardware.
Right, of your operating system.
Right.
It cannot be inside a jar file or something of that kind has to be a file that JVM can load it.
Now, we've seen in the past that we can actually treat these files any file as a resource when we use
Native Image, right.
And what the Native Image compiler does, it actually embeds all the binaries of that resource into
the native executable file.
So if even if we have a dynamic library, we can in fact embed all the binary of that file into our
native image into final file, right?
So all the binary are there.
But then the problem is that at runtime we cannot pass that binary into the system load method.
Right.
You have to give it a file so and I will show you how to do that.
We saw for the text file how to do it.
For example, there was a particle class called a scanner which you can pass a resource, the binaries
of a resource there, and a scanner can read them byte by byte and then interpret them as character
based on the encoding that you provide.
And this was a very ideal case for us when we are compiling a native Java application to a native executable
file, which has some text file as a resource, then we embed all the binaries of that text file in
our application, in our binary file, executable file, and then a scanner helps us to read all those
binaries and then convert them to text.
We want to do the same thing with JNI, which means dynamic libraries.
Dynamic libraries are compiled, C++ are applications which are not executable, right?
You compile to a library, which means it just has binaries of some C++ functions that can be loaded
and execute it.
And then we want to first create those binaries in a simple example.
And then we wanted to look at how to embedded into our native executable file, which we already know
how to do it.
We have to declare it as a resource and ask JVM to do it using the class loader system resource.
What that means is that we have to put the directory that contains this dynamic library and class path
right as resource.
Anything that is on the class path is considered a system resource and can be searched for at runtime
by the JVM itself, which means you don't you are not tied to a specific file directory hierarchy or
file system, anything.
You can package everything in a jar file and JVM knows how to search for files in a jar file, for example.
Because as long as everything is on the class path, JVM knows how to search for them and grab the binaries.
So once you have the binary, then we have to convert it somehow to a file again so that this system,
that load can work.
Unfortunately, the system, that load or system, that load library, they don't accept an input,
a stream of bytes.
Right.
That's the problem.
So we have to do some extra work here to make it compatible.
So let's head to Eclipse.
I have created a Class Jenny demo and we have this public static native voice say hi.
And in the main method we're just saying that Jenny demo say hi.
So if I run this, we're going to say get unsatisfied linker or void Java, native image and item.
First of all, if again I just want to quickly mention how Jenny works.
This say hi method will be binded to a C++ function.
So binding happens in a C++ function with this particular a signature is a package hierarchy.
Our class is in a particular package.
It's called the Java native image.
Right.
And in the class file Jenny demo and then underscore the method name and we're not having any overloading
anything.
So that's it.
But however this there is a difference between this underscore that separates the method name, class
name and the package name.
And these underscore which is in the package name itself.
So underscore in the package and it becomes underscore one, right?
And then this class is going to it's going to get a JNI environment pointer, right?
And then this static method is going to have a pointer class to j class or the meta information and
it's not taking any parameters.
So this is the main signature, right?
And you can create a header file include the edge, which comes with the JDK and then manually write
the signature and then eventually create your application.
But obviously we want to Java C to do it for us.
So we select.
If we look at Java C hyphen H, I already have set up an external tool.
I call it Java C, hyphen H, which points to the JDK Java compiler that comes.
You can point it to either Java 17 compiler, which comes with the LLVM or Java 17 compiler that comes
with the Oracle JDK.
All the Java compilers are compatible, right?
Obviously they compile to the same bytecode and working directory.
You can set it to wherever you want.
I see it to work in space location so you pass the hyphen H to your Java C so that it realizes that
you're asking to also generate the header file for the particular resource.
And I'm asking you to put it in inside a C++ project.
Native Image Underscore Underscore C in a directory called header and I'm asking to run Java C hyphen
edge on the resource location.
This is actual source file.
Remember, you're not running it on a class file in JDK eight, we had another tool called Java H,
which you could run it on a class file, but then it was deprecated and removed.
So now you have to run Java C hyphen edge on a Java file and a source file.
And in terms of eclipse terminology, it's a resource location, a source file, it is a Java file is
a resource.
A class file is a type.
Right?
So, so what I need to do, I need to go ahead and first create a C++ project.
So I'm going to switch to my C++ perspective.
If you have not installed it, just go to eclipse markets, help eclipse marketplace and install install
c, t c development environment for your eclipse.
And if you are using or macros just like what I am using, then just go ahead and install Xcode or Xcode
command line tools so that you have all the compiler tools ready.
And you can always check if you have the compiler or the bell tools ready for your macros, just open
up a terminal and say je plus plus hyphen hyphen version.
It should point to apple clang.
Remember G plus pass is an alias that basically comes with a new.
But when you use install the Xcode command line tools, it maps all these naming C++, everything to
Apple clang, right?
So it goes to the apple clang.
Same with the C++ or Clang Plus plus C++ iPhone version.
It also maps it directly to the Apple client.
So all these aliases are created and the road map to the same build tool, which is apple clang, right?
So I have everything installed in terms of build tools.
Now I have the CD in the Eclipse also available and remember it doesn't provide any compiler unlike
GCT Java development environment is by default comes with Eclipse and Eclipse has its own Java compiler.
You don't rely on other like external compiler, right?
I mean, you can define your own Java build tool in Eclipse, but it's not recommended.
It's better to use the the build tool that is embedded in Eclipse, which is the Java compiler that
comes with Eclipse, but it doesn't come with its own build tool, it doesn't come with own, it comes
with a mate.
So it kind of has something in terms of managing the build, but it doesn't come with the compiler.
So it has tools to manage the build, let's say make or internal, internal CTT manage, but then it
doesn't have so CTT does not have a compiler.
It doesn't come with a compiler, right?
Because compiler is platform dependent.
So they can't embed all the compilers for different platforms because Eclipse you can it's Java based,
you can download, install it on any platform.
It makes sense that it comes with its own Java compiler, but for CD or C++ development, it doesn't
make sense to compile all the or embed all the compilers for all the platforms there.
So I'm in my C++ perspective, I'm right clicking and create a new C++ project.
I'm going to use the C++ managed build.
And then let's go with the executable file helloworld C++.
And it automatically recognizes the tool change of my platform, which is macro as GCC.
Obviously it's not GC, it's Apple Clang, but G plus plus command is mapped to Apple Clang by default.
So that's fine.
And then I'm going to call it Java and Native Image underscore C.
Whenever I have a Java project that has a particular name and it has some binding to JNI or C++.
I just named the C++ project the same name as Java, but give it underscore C or you can give it underscore
CP.
Right.
So I'm asking to create a default executable, HELLOWORLD, C++, and then Source Z and then let's just
go with the release.
We don't want to spend time debugging and now everything is ready.
And what I would like to do normally after the project is created.
So what I need to do, let's save these and then I'm going to edit my active working set and bring it
to the current view.
Right?
So this is my C project.
All the headers are recognized.
It means everything is correctly set up.
The Eclipse ADT was able to correctly find all the build tools that are installed using Xcode and user
locale included.
These are the extra libraries that I have as a user installed and it goes into user locale include.
These are all for example, I have installed Boost, which is a huge C++ library.
I have installed GSL Guinness Scientific Library.
So anything that you as a user in Mac OS which goes into user user locale include Eclipse, CBT also
picks up on them, which is a very nice feature.
So CRC right now we get the CP and then I would I like to always do a quick hello of all to make sure
that everything is set up, the compiler is ready.
So this hammer you just build it.
It uses make so make sure that you have installed mag C++ so it compiles hyphen C means just create
the object for compile and then without hyphen C means now you're invoking the linker right first compiler
and then the linker and then you get the executable.
So if we now run it, it says hello.
So everything is set up right now.
I need first of all, I'm going to clean up and delete the binary release directory.
And then the other thing that I'm going to do, I'm going to go to the properties C, C++, build the
settings, and I am going to set this dialog to let's say C++ 17.
That's fine.
But then in the build artifact, I don't want to create an executable, I want to create a shared library
which is in macros is dileep.
So apply and close.
So we're going to delete these.
So right now we have TCP.
So what are we going to do?
We have a JNI demo class that has a.
That has a native method, right?
So now I'm going to select our resource file or the source file Java and then run our Java C hyphen
H.
And it's going to compile.
And as you can see, it automatically puts it in our C project, C++ project, Java and Native Image
underscore C in the header file.
That's how we basically created Instructor Java C, that hyphen S, right.
So the header files generated and as you can see, it automatically adds an edge and it assumes that
it's in diamond brackets, which means as soon as that generated edge is on the compiler path, which
means all these include directories that Eclipse CD automatically recognizes.
These are the ones that usually we use the diamond notation instead of double code for include, which
means these are in the compiler path.
So what we need to do is we're going to go out C, C++, build settings in the tools for the C++ compiler.
We're going to include TAB and then add the include include pass and we're going to say go to file system.
And in the Java virtual machines, let's say IBM, all of them come in this Mac basically home and then
include and then you add this so that you include the joint edge, but then you have to also go ahead
and include the machine dependency and I underscore empty the directory, right?
And now these arrows should go away.
If we hit command or control and open this header, we should be able to access it.
It means everything is set up correctly.
We don't need to set up anything for the link here because JDK is automatically this generated edge
is more like header stuff.
You don't need to add any extra C++ or any binary file, you just add this, include a C and you can
see it automatically generated that.
And one thing that I forgot is that there is always a Java underscore as the at the beginning, which
means this C++ function binds to a Java method and then Java underscore one native, underscore one
image.
This is our package name and you see that the underscore in the package are translate to underscore
one and then underscore class name, underscore method name and it takes general environment pointer
and J class, right?
And then what we do, we copy these in our CPP.
The very first thing that we do, we include that header file using a double code so that we, we say
that it's not a compiler path, but it's something that the user is defining.
So go one level up, go into the header and then a Java native image demo edge and then we paste the
function generally.
One point is our JVM and J class is J and I demo underscore class and what are we going to do in the
say we're going to just print something to the console, so we're going to say include IO stream and
then stdc out CDK out hello world from C++, hello world from C++ and backslash.
N That's it.
The next thing that we're going to do, we're going to basically compile or build.
So let's build everything looks okay and we got the binary and now you see that it's a dynamic library
lib, this lib gets added and then that di lib on macros gets added in Linux is usually that.
So which means it's a shared object.
All right.
So the final step is to basically let's copy this to our Java project in our we can put it in our RC
or create a separate.
So it says that you had some changes, everything looks good and then java lib, java native MHC delete.
And the first thing that we're going to do, we're going to go back to our Java project and then we're
going to make sure that everything went well.
So in order to use if I run this again, it's going to give us error.
So what we're going to do, we're going to define a static library and in strike the JVM, which is
our system class to load this library.
Right.
And so what we're going to do, we're going to get the absolute path, copy full path and then paste
it here, know that the only load function that we have here, it takes a string.
So you cannot give it an input, a stream or a stream of binaries.
So these are absolute paths.
Now if I run this.
It works fine.
So it goes and finds a file at this location and then loads it gets all the binaries.
And then when you call this JVM realizes that this is a native method, so it looks for a binary file,
one of these dynamic libraries that has a binding to this.
And in order to find for that, it looks for this symbol Java underscore the package name, the class
name and the method name.
So when JVM finds this symbol in one of these libraries, it executes the binary code that is associated
with those that function.
Right?
Remember, functions are symbols that map to memory addresses, right?
Every function in C++ has a memory address that has a block that's pointing to a block of code that
is associated with executing dysfunction.
So right now, our Jini development went very well.
Very simple thing, we can just run it.
JVM successfully loads these, but then if I use my native image, this is going to fail because this
obviously this is string, even though it's hardcoded when we embed this dynamically into the native
image, the system that load cannot.
This file path is not valid anymore.
Right.
If we only have one executable file.
So in, in the next lecture I will show you how to deal with that.
So I hope you enjoy this one.
Please stay tuned and I'll see the next one.